introduce surf in old doc and new doc (#430)
aptos-labs/developer-docs: apps/nextra/pages/en/build/sdks/ts-sdk/type-safe-contract.mdx

---
title: "Surf: TypeScript Type Safety for Move Contracts"
---

import { Steps, Tabs } from 'nextra/components'

# Surf: TypeScript Type Safety for Move Contracts

## What is Surf

Surf is a TypeScript library built on top of the Aptos TypeScript SDK and the wallet adapter that provides static type safety for your Move contracts by inferring type from contract ABI (Application Binary Interface). It allows you to catch type errors at compile time rather than at runtime. Most existing TypeScript IDEs will automatically provide warnings if you try to access fields that don't exist, or provide wrong input types.

## Usage

<Steps>

### Step 1

First, download the ABI of the Move contract and save it to a TypeScript file. In this case, we're naming the file `abi.ts` in the `src/utils` folder.

> <Tabs items={['Mac & Linux', 'Windoes']}>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs items={['macOS & Linux', 'Windows']}>
```

        "axios": "^1.7.2",
        "js-yaml": "^4.1.0"
      }
    }
    ```

    ```js filename="gen_abi.js"
    const axios = require("axios");
    const fs = require("node:fs");

    // replace it with the network your contract lives on
    NETWORK=testnet
    // replace it with your contract address
    CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x12345
    // replace it with your module name, every .move file except move script has module_address::module_name {}
    MODULE_NAME=fungible_asset_launchpad

    async function getAbi() {
      axios
        .get(`https://fullnode.${process.env.VITE_APP_NETWORK}.aptoslabs.com/v1/accounts/0x${accountAddress}/module/${MODULE_NAME}`)
        .then((response) => {
          const abi = response.data.abi;
          const abiString = `export const ABI = ${JSON.stringify(abi)} as const;`;
          // Write ABI to abi.ts file
          fs.writeFileSync("src/utils/abi.ts", abiString);
          console.log("ABI saved to src/utils/abi.ts");
        })
        .catch((error) => {
          console.error("Error fetching ABI:", error);
        });
    }

    getAbi();
    ```

    ```PowerShell filename="get_abi.ps1"
    npm i 
    npm run get-abi
    ```

>   </Tabs.Tab>

Reviewer: I can unblock this for now.

However, please replace this with a call in create-aptos-dapp, because right now, you have 2 scripts that do the same thing.  Ideally, it should only be the second one.

> # Surf: Type Safety for your Move Contracts

Reviewer 2: Missing title frontmatter

> # Surf: Type Safety for your Move Contracts

Reviewer 2: Please add an entry to `_meta.tsx`

## What is Surf

> Surf is TypeScript library built on top of Aptos TypeScript SDK and wallet adaptor that provides type safety for your Move contracts. Type safety is important because it allows you to catch errors at compile time rather than at runtime, and usually IDE like VS Code shows warning if you try to access a field that doesn't exist in the contract or if you pass the wrong type to a function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Surf is a TypeScript library built on top of the Aptos TypeScript SDK and Wallet Adaptor. It provides type safety for your Move contracts by <EXPLANATION HERE>.
```

## Usage

> You first need to download the ABI of the Move contract you want to interact with. 

Reviewer 2: Pleaes use `<Steps>` component https://preview.aptos.dev/en/developer-platforms/contribute/components/steps

> ```bash gen_abi.sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash filename="gen_abi.sh"
```

> ```bash gen_abi.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash filename="gen_abi.sh"
```

#! /bin/bash

NETWORK=testnet
# replace it with your contract address
CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x12345
# replace it with your package name, you can find it in Move.toml
PACKAGE_NAME=fungible_asset_launchpad

echo "export const ABI = $(curl https://fullnode.$NETWORK.aptoslabs.com/v1/accounts/$CONTRACT_ADDRESS/module/$PACKAGE_NAME | sed -n 's/.*"abi":\({.*}\).*}$/\1/p') as const" > src/utils/abi.ts
```

Then you can use surf client as a replacement of the Aptos client when interact with Move contracts, both in frontend and node script. For non-contract related operations like managing account, querying indexer API, you still need to use Aptos client. 

> ```ts src/utils/aptos.ts

Reviewer 2: Incorrect codeblock filename annotation, see above
